along the coast of California ocean
currents carry a constant supply of
nutrients up from the depths to the
surface layers these up Wellings
fertilise forests of giant kelp that
thrive in the summer sunshine the algal
towers are as high as a three-storey
house and they can grow by half a meter
a day
life in the kelp is as full of drama as
in any other forest but the cast is less
familiar an army of sea urchins is
mounting an attack the urchin plague
strikes at the kelps holdfasts their
crucial attachments to the rock
holdfasts are extremely tough but each
urchin has five teeth which are self
sharpening and are replaced every few
months
merchants fell vast areas of kelp forest
creating clearings known as urchin
Barrens yet Barrens is a poor
description millions of invertebrates
invade the seabed the most fearsome
predator here is a giant the sunflower
starfish is a metre across with an
appetite for brittle stars
it uses its feet to taste for prey
when its actions are speeded up it
becomes clear that the Predators
fondness for the brittle stars is almost
matched by the brittle stars ability to
get out of the way sand Dolan's flat sea
urchins cluster together as a defense
but it doesn't seem to work against the
sunflower starfish the predator extrudes
it's summer can wraps it around its
victims liquefying their soft parts
nothing is left of them except their
white skeletons